1)))Which statement is true about Java?
a) Java is a sequence-dependent programming language
b) Java is a code dependent programming language
c) Java is a platform-dependent programming language
d) Java is a platform-independent programming language
Answer: d
Explanation: Java is called ‘Platform Independent Language’ as it primarily works on the principle of ‘compile once, run everywhere’.

2))) Which one of the following is not a Java feature?
a) Object-oriented
b) Use of pointers
c) Portable
d) Dynamic and Extensible
Answer: b
Explanation: Pointers is not a Java feature. Java provides an efficient abstraction layer for developing without using a pointer in Java. Features of Java Programming are Portable, Architectural Neutral, Object-Oriented, Robust, Secure, Dynamic and Extensible, etc.


3)))What will be the output of the following Java code?

    class increment {
        public static void main(String args[]) 
        {        
             int g = 3;
             System.out.print(++g * 8);
        } 
    }
a) 32
b) 33
c) 24
d) 25
Answer: a
Explanation: Operator ++ has more preference than *, thus g becomes 4 and when multiplied by 8 gives 32.

4)))Which of the following is not an OOPS concept in Java?
a) Polymorphism
b) Inheritance
c) Compilation
d) Encapsulation
Answer: c
Explanation: There are 4 OOPS concepts in Java. Inheritance, Encapsulation, Polymorphism and Abstraction.

5)))What is the extension of compiled java classes?
a) .txt
b) .js
c) .class
d) .java
Answer: c
Explanation: The compiled java files have .class extension.

6)))Which of these keywords is used to define interfaces in Java?
a) intf
b) Intf
c) interface
d) Interface
Answer: c
Explanation: interface keyword is used to define interfaces in Java.

7)))Which one of the following is not an access modifier?
a) Protected
b) Void
c) Public
d) Private
Answer: b
Explanation: Public, private, protected and default are the access modifiers.

